{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 <br/>\
\
Early Schoenberg's piece before op. 10 applied Wagnerian leitmotiv, contrapuntal chord progression, and avoid tonal resolutions.  Also Schoenberg was influenced by German romantic naturalism tradition of acoustic effects and chord progressions.  In the mean time, the style of "developing motifs", gradual variation of motive in a music piece for self similarity, came form Brahms.\
\
The progress of Schoenberg's composition interests was focused on developing motifs rather than establish tonal scheme.  Therefore gradually from stepwise progression or chromatic shifting of chords, Schoenberg abandoned the tendency of "resolving" in the tonal scheme.  By focusing on variation of developing motifs, Schoenberg started to adapt non triads into his harmonic system and finally crossed the line to atonality.\
\
According to Morgan, there is no definite line in between tonal and atonal in Schoenberg's early pieces.  Some suggested the last piece of second String Quartet op. 10, without key signature, can be considered his first atonal piece.  However even in Klavierst\'fcke op. 11, the bass in the second piece still suggested a D minor consistency.  It will be better to understand that Schoenberg is more focused on free variations of motifs and counterpoints rather than the question of "crossing the line of tonality".\
\
}