{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;\f1\fnil\fcharset136 STSongti-TC-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \
Early twentieth century is a golden age of European civilization.  A second wave of industrial revolution starts from applying electricity.  Scientific progress formed the foundation of the age, such as electric lights, telephone, movies, X-rays, alone with ground breaking theories such as Darwin's "Origin of Species"(1859), Freud's psychoanalysis(1900), Einstein's theory of relativity
\f1 (1905)
\f0 , all made early twentieth century a very creative and prosperous age.\
\
Economically, this age is also the peak of European colonialism in the world.  Development of military technology, invention of weapons gives Europe huge power over colonized countries.  Around 1875, major European countries has finished dividing Africa and occupied coastal Asian countries.  The impact of world colonialism not only created great economical and political force, it also made oriental cultures accessible in Europe.\
\
Politically, the outcome of Franco-Prussian War has finished in 1871 not only united German, it also gave an opportunity for Italy to finish it's independence, also took away secular power of Vatican.  In the mean time, it collapsed France Second Republic and slowed down industrialization in France, costs it's leading position in Europe.  \
\
By taking down the biggest political power in Europe, Franco-Prussian War broke the old balance of European balance.  On top of competing colonial territories, it forced European countries to form new balances by making allies surrounding German and France.  In the mean time, the contradiction of these two countries has escalated with those groups and their arms race and leaded to World War I.}