---
layout: default
title: The History of Electronic Sound Synthesizer
categories: notes
tag: history 20th
---

# Early Synthesizers #

*Teleharmonium, 1906*

The first electronic instrument was invented by Thaddeus Cahill called Telharmonium presented in 1906.  It was build with multiple gears called tone wheels with pickup coils to create electronic currents.  Sound timbres are created additively with overtones.  It can create multiple notes siamotainously.  The Teleharmonium was presented to the public was piped into the telephone system to provide address system.

*Theremin and Martenot, 1920s*

In 1919, Russian inventor Leon Theremin took electrostatic field between two antennae to generate sound.   In 1928, Maurice Martinet created Ondes Martenot uses similar techniques to Theremin, but instead he designs to control pitch by pulling a string back and forth.

*Trautonium, 1929*

Trautonium was invented by Friedrich Trautwein in Berlin at the Musikhochschule's music and radio lab.  The pitch was determined by a resister wire over a metal plate.  The Trautonium was the first subtractive synthesizer model being made.  The oscillator creates sawtooth-like waveforms and being filtered by two parallel resonant filter circuits.  The volume was controlled by a foot pedal.  Paul Hindemith has composed several pieces for Trautonium, including a concerto.

 *Hammond Organ, 1930-*

Hammond Organ was developed from 1930.  It uses tone wheel and additive synthesis approach like Teleharmonium.   Besides harmonics and fundamental frequencies, Hammond Organ also provides a sub-fundamental and 3rd harmonic from sub-fondamental sound to create bass sounds on the bass foot pedal.  Hammond Organ is the first instrument that applied equal temperament tuning.  Also, it uses Leslie speaker which spins during it's playback to create it's wah-wah sound quality.

*Chamblin and Mellotron, 1940s*

The first tape based keyboard was invented by Harry Chamberlin in 1946 and considered the first sampler.  It plays back a fraction of tape recording when you hit a key.  Later the concept of Chamberlin was took by tape engineering company in England and build their own sampler called Mellotron  and made it a massed produced product.

*RCA Synthesizer, 1956*

The RCA Electronic Music Synthesizer Mark I was introduced in 1956.  The sound was generated by 12 tuning forks stimulated electromagnetically.  The instrument also offered signal processing options.  The output of the sound generator can be monitored by loudspeakers and recorded directly onto turntables.  The synthesizer was controlled by information punched onto a roll of paper tape, enable continue automation of pitch, volume, timber, and envelops.  Milton Babbitt composed several pieces on RCA Mark II.

# Moog Modular Synthesizer #

Transistor became available around 1947-1948, it has made possible for electronic instrument to be built smaller, portable and more accurate to control.

At the end of 1963, American innovator Robert  Arthur "Bob" Moog combined a voltage controlled oscillator (VCO) and amplifier module (VCA) with a keyboard and created the first prototype of a voltage controlled synthesizer.  He also developed other modules such as LFO, ADSR, VCF, RM, Mixer, Sequencer, S&H, and Custom control inputs.  Users can use patch cables to combine, control and modulate different modules as they want to create sounds.  Later in 1971, Moog began to produce Minimoog, Model D, a widely available, portable and relatively affordable model of moog synthesizers, although it is not able to connect the modules freely.

Moog Synthesizer was used by several composers and in pop music.  Famous composer and producers include John Cage, Wendy Carlos, and Beatles.

# Digital Synthesizers #

The first digital music language using a computer to generate sounds was MUSIC-I, MUSIC-II...., to MusicN, developed by Max Mathews at 1960s.  Due to the limit of processing speed of computers in that time, MUSIC-N systems was not able to create or perform sounds in real time.  Sounds has to be compiled with a score before it can be played back.

Using a general purposed computer to create sounds has it's own limit of processing power.  Therefore it is necessary to create a specialized computer for audio computation and synthesizing.  A full digital synthesizer such as Samson Box developed in Stanford CCRMA.  Samson Box is a microcode synthesis which allows users to use algorithms to create sound waves in bits.  However, in order to change the microcode, all sounds need to be compiled ahead of time, a real time keyboard performance is still not available.

The first all digital synthesizer is introduced in 1976 by Jon Appleton called Dartmouth digital Synthesizer, later called Synclavier.  Synclavier is an additive synthesizer with specialized sound processors, it also provides frequency modulation and wavetable synthesis.  Furthermore, Synclavier is with a keyboard that allows users to play in real time.

In 1983, YAMAHA co. introduced DX-7, a digital FM synthesizer under the patent and algorithm of John Chowning at CCRMA.   DX-7 uses 6 sine wave oscillators per voice and provided 32 different combinations of those oscillators (algorithms)  to create phenomenal sound waves such as piano, marimba or bass. 