{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Besides Schoenberg's own description and motivic analyze about this piece.  It has also been discussed and analyzed for several times.  According to a DMA thesis from Kirk Gustafson, major sources of analysis, especially in early twentieth century are romantically descriptions.  Among those previous studies, there are two detailed analyses in English provided by Walter Frisch and Richard Swift.\
\
Frisch's analyse, influenced by Egon Wellesz and Karl Dahlhaus, focused on the relationship of the music form and Dehmel's poem.  Based on the poem and Stravinsky's analyze, he separated the whole piece into five sections and formed A-B-A'-C-A''.  The length of each A sections, about 28 measures and longer at the end contains one set of motive, are significantly shorter than B and C sections.   Furthermore, Frisch not only pointed out the motives Schoenberg used in this piece and it's relation to the musical form, he also analyzed the relations in between those motives as a gradual variation.\
\
On the other hand, Swift focuses more on the tonal relationship within this piece, alone with the nature of motivic ritornello in this piece, he argued the piece can be analyzed to be a double sonata form.  The A section were interpreted to be introductions, transitions and coda.  He also pointed out the i-II-i relation in the "Sonata I" and I-III-I tonal relations in "Sonata II".  He further argued the tonal plan for the whole piece would be i-II-III-iv-I, same linear scale element in the beginning of the piece.\
\
The ritornello arrangements and developing variation of motives in this piece made it ambiguous for analyzing.    However, in the dimension of overall formal structure and sectioning about Verkl\'e4rte Nacht, both Frisch and Swift analyze did not reveal too much difference from each other.  Even though it might raise an argument being over-interpreted due to the historical background about the definition of "Sonata", Swift did make a logical observation about how motives are applied and developed in the big "B" and "C" section.\
\
| mm.               |      Frisch      | Swift             |\
|------------------|:--------------:|------------------|\
| 1 - 28             |     A             | **Introduction** |\
| 29-187           |     B             | **Sonata I**        |\
| __(29-49)      |                     | __**Exposition** |\
|                       |                     | ___first group |\
|                       |                     | ____part I     |\
| __(50-62)     |                      | ____part II   |\
| __(63-104)   |                     | ___bridge       |\
| __(105-131) |                     | ___second group |\
| __(132-168) |                     | __Developement |\
|                      |                      | ___part I      |\
| __(169-180) |                      | ___part II    |\
| __(181-187) |                      | __**Recapitulation** |\
| __(188-228)  |                     | __**Transition** |\
| 188-228         |     A'            | **Transition**     |\
| 229-390         |     C             | **Sonata II**      |\
| __(229-243)  |                     | __**Exposition** |\
|                       |                     | ___first group |\
| __(244-248)  |                     | ___bridge     |\
| __(249-276)  |                     | ___second group |\
| __(277-293)  |                     | ___codetta |\
| __(294-309)  |                     | __**Development** |\
|		         |                     | ___part I      |\
| __(310-339)  |                     | ___part II    |\
| __(340-362)  |                     | __**Recapitulation** |\
|                       |                     | ___first group |\
| __(363-369) |                      | ___bridge |\
| __(370-391)  |     A''            | ___second group |\
| 391-418         |                     | **Coda**             |\
\
<br/>}