{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 In his own article analyzing Verkl\'e4rt Nacht, Schoenberg has pointed out two major structural anchors: mm. 229 as a breakpoint, and mm. 370 as coda.  Acoustically, the overall formal design from the poem can be seen as a d minor to D major transfiguration, based on the mood of "despair - released" in Dehmel's poem.  Therefore the modulation to D major in mm. 229 marks a obvious section point in this piece.   In the first section, Schoenberg applied a lot of unstable chords such as sequenced half-diminished, and diminished chords, along with stepwise or chromatic chord progressions to express the mood of instability and despair.  In the second section, besides modulating to a major key, more triad and seventh chords are used, chromatic chords is treated conventionally as embellishment chords.  The chord progression in the second section tends to be diatonic, besides large amount of pedal points were on the bass line to emphasize stability and assuring, chord progressions tend to be conventional relations.\
\
Based on the motive distribution, tonality and Schoenberg's indication, this piece can be analyzed as a big A-B-A'-C-A'' form wrapping a secondary a-b-a in the B section and a-b-a'-c-a'' in the C section showed in the chart below.  The whole piece applied the technique of developing variation from a theme, therefore it can not be strictly categorized in conventional music forms such as rondo or ternary.  The theme-development model in this piece is also one of the reason Swift interpret this piece in sonata forms.\
\
| mm.             | section        |\
|----------------|----------------|\
| **1-49**      | **A**        |\
| **50-168**  | **B**        |\
| __(50-99)     | __a             |\
| __(100-123) | __b             |\
| __(124-168) | __a'            |\
| **169-228**  | **A'**     |\
| **229-369**  | **C**      |\
| __(229-248) | __intro       |\
| __(249-276) | __interlude |\
| __(277-293) | __a             |\
| __(294-309) | __b             |\
| __(310-319) | __a'            |\
| __(320-352) | __c             |\
| __(353-369) | __a''           |\
| **370-418** | **A'' (coda)** |\
\
\
\
}