{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 ####Motives and Form####\
\
For the first A section, even though there is an authentic cadence by mm. 29, the motive 2a and 2b followed after this cadence was never functioned independently from previous group 1a, 1b, and 1c as formal sections.  On the other hand, authentic cadences were seldom used as breakpoints in the first section of this piece.  Furthermore, Schoenberg has indicated the story of the second stanza as motive 3a.  Therefore it makes more sense to consider motive group 1 and 2 to be together.  Mm. 50 where a fermata and a key change occurred,  would work better as a breakpoint of the first A section instead of mm. 29 suggested by both Frisch and Swift.  \
\
With the same reason, the A' section would be considered from mm. 169, with a major key change and started with an introduction of 4a'' which is a variation of 1a, followed by motive group 2 and group 1.\
\
The B section can be observed into a-b-a' subsections.  The middle sub-section occurs at mm. 100-123 in E major, with motive group 5 exclusively running.  Group 3 and 4 on the other hand are running both a and a' subsection.\
\
We can also find a-b-a'-c-a'' subsections in section C.  The a subsection occurred at mm. 277-290, mm. 312-319, mm. 353-359 where motive group 9 is the major material.  The b and c subsections on the other hand is functioning to expose motive group 10 and 11.   Before this small rondo from mm. 229-276 can be observed into two subsections.  From mm. 249 to mm. 276 is an independent section where Schoenberg indicated applying overtones of strings to "express the beauty of moonlight".  This section is independent from other subsections and never revealed in this section again, therefore it can be observed as an interlude.   From mm. 229 too mm. 248 on the other hand, the motive 6 "man's theme" is functioned later as connecting material from c subsection back to a'' subsection.  Therefore the sub section can be indicated as an introduction to this section.\
\
Schoenberg applied a "farewell" technique in the coda section from mm. 370.  Besides recap of motive group 1, motives from other sections also reveals to summarize the whole piece.}