{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 *Teleharmonium, 1906*\
\
The first electronic instrument was invented by Thaddeus Cahill called Telharmonium presented in 1906.  It was build with multiple gears called tone wheels with pickup coils to create electronic currents.  Sound timbres are created additively with overtones.  It can create multiple notes siamotainously.  The Teleharmonium was presented to the public was piped into the telephone system to provide address system.\
\
*Theremin and Martenot, 1920s*\
\
In 1919, Russian inventor Leon Theremin took electrostatic field between two antennae to generate sound.   In 1928, Maurice Martinet created Ondes Martenot uses similar techniques to Theremin, but instead he designs to control pitch by pulling a string back and forth.\
\
*Trautonium, 1929*\
\
Trautonium was invented by Friedrich Trautwein in Berlin at the Musikhochschule's music and radio lab.  The pitch was determined by a resister wire over a metal plate.  The Trautonium was the first subtractive synthesizer model being made.  The oscillator creates sawtooth-like waveforms and being filtered by two parallel resonant filter circuits.  The volume was controlled by a foot pedal.  Paul Hindemith has composed several pieces for Trautonium, including a concerto.\
\
 *Hammond Organ, 1930-*\
\
Hammond Organ was developed from 1930.  It uses tone wheel and additive synthesis approach like Teleharmonium.   Besides harmonics and fundamental frequencies, Hammond Organ also provides a sub-fundamental and 3
\fs18 \super rd
\fs28 \nosupersub  harmonic from sub-fondamental sound to create bass sounds on the bass foot pedal.  Hammond Organ is the first instrument that applied equal temperament tuning.  Also, it uses Leslie speaker which spins during it's playback to create it's wah-wah sound quality.\
\
*Chamblin and Mellotron, 1940s*\
\
The first tape based keyboard was invented by Harry Chamberlin in 1946 and considered the first sampler.  It plays back a fraction of tape recording when you hit a key.  Later the concept of Chamberlin was took by tape engineering company in England and build their own sampler called Mellotron  and made it a massed produced product.\
\
*RCA Synthesizer, 1956*\
\
The RCA Electronic Music Synthesizer Mark I was introduced in 1956.  The sound was generated by 12 tuning forks stimulated electromagnetically.  The instrument also offered signal processing options.  The output of the sound generator can be monitored by loudspeakers and recorded directly onto turntables.  The synthesizer was controlled by information punched onto a roll of paper tape, enable continue automation of pitch, volume, timber, and envelops.  Milton Babbitt composed several pieces on RCA Mark II.}