{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 The first digital music language using a computer to generate sounds was MUSIC-I, MUSIC-II...., to MusicN, developed by Max Mathews at 1960s.  Due to the limit of processing speed of computers in that time, MUSIC-N systems was not able to create or perform sounds in real time.  Sounds has to be compiled with a score before it can be played back.\
\
Using a general purposed computer to create sounds has it's own limit of processing power.  Therefore it is necessary to create a specialized computer for audio computation and synthesizing.  A full digital synthesizer such as Samson Box developed in Stanford CCRMA.  Samson Box is a microcode synthesis which allows users to use algorithms to create sound waves in bits.  However, in order to change the microcode, all sounds need to be compiled ahead of time, a real time keyboard performance is still not available.\
\
The first all digital synthesizer is introduced in 1976 by Jon Appleton called Dartmouth digital Synthesizer, later called Synclavier.  Synclavier is an additive synthesizer with specialized sound processors, it also provides frequency modulation and wavetable synthesis.  Furthermore, Synclavier is with a keyboard that allows users to play in real time.\
\
In 1983, YAMAHA co. introduced DX-7, a digital FM synthesizer under the patent and algorithm of John Chowning at CCRMA.   DX-7 uses 6 sine wave oscillators per voice and provided 32 different combinations of those oscillators (algorithms)  to create phenomenal sound waves such as piano, marimba or bass. }